Basic Crepes
 
(Makes  8 crepes)
1 cup all-purpose flour
2 eggs
1/2 cup milk
1/2 cup water
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons butter, melted
 
Directions:
In a large mixing bowl, whisk together the flour and the eggs. Gradually add in the milk and water, stirring to combine. Add the salt and butter; beat until smooth (use blender if necessary).
Heat a lightly oiled griddle or frying pan over medium high heat. Pour or scoop the batter onto the griddle, using approximately 1/4 cup for each crepe. Tilt the pan with a circular motion so that the batter coats the surface evenly.
Cook the crepe for about 2 minutes, until the bottom is light brown. Loosen with a spatula, turn and cook the other side. Serve hot.

Buttermilk Syrup
1/2 c. butter
1 1/2 c. sugar
3/4 c. buttermilk
2 T. corn syrup
1 tsp baking soda

Don’t use the small pot.

Boil all this together for one minute and after that add 1 and 1/2 tsp. of whatever extract you want your syrup to be!

Buttermilk Waffles
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 tbsp sugar
2 tsp baking powder
1 tsp baking soda
1/2 tsp salt
2 cups buttermilk
1/3 cup butter melted
2 eggs
1 tsp vanilla extract
INSTRUCTIONS
In a medium bowl, whisk together flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda and salt. 
In another medium bowl, whisk together buttermilk and butter. Add eggs and stir until combined.
Add dry ingredients to wet ingredients and whisk until just combined (there were still be lumps). Fold in vanilla. Let batter rest for 10 minutes.
Preheat waffle iron and grease. Pour about 1/3 - 1/2 cup of batter into the waffle iron (or until batter reached about 1/2 inch to the edge of the iron). Cook until ready. Top with syrup and berries. 



Fluffy Pancakes

INGREDIENTS (for 6 people):
1.5 cups milk
¼ cup white vinegar
2 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 cup white sugar
2 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 egg
4 tablespoons butter, melted
cooking spray
DIRECTIONS:
1.	Combine milk with vinegar in a medium bowl and set aside for 5 minutes to "sour".
2.	Combine flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a large mixing bowl. Whisk egg and butter into "soured" milk. Pour the flour mixture into the wet ingredients and whisk until lumps are gone.
3.	Heat a large skillet over medium heat, and coat with cooking spray. Pour 1/4 cupfuls of batter onto the skillet, and cook until bubbles appear on the surface. Flip with a spatula, and cook until browned on the other side.

Mackay Pancake Syrup 
(for 4 people)
6 T. butter
1/2 c. sugar
1/4 c. buttermilk
1/2 T. corn syrup
1/4 tsp baking soda

Boil until it starts to get darker (about 5 minutes), then add 1 tablespoon vanilla.


Omelet in a Mug

Ingredients:
2 eggs
1 tablespoon minced green pepper 1 tablespoon minced onion
1 tablespoon shredded cheese salt and pepper to taste
2 tablespoons salsa

Directions:
Coat your mug with olive oil or cooking spray.
Add eggs to mug and mix with fork.
Add minced green pepper, onion, cheese, salt and pepper. Whisk until all ingredients are combined.
Microwave on high for one minute. Stir and break up any large chunks of egg. Cook for another45-60 seconds or until eggs are set.


Overnight French Toast Casserole

1/2 cup (1 stick) butter
1 cup packed brown sugar
2 tablespoons maple syrup
1 loaf French bread, cut into 1-inch cubes
Cinnamon
Nutmeg
8 eggs
2 cups prepared eggnog (or 1 cup milk and one cup half and half)
1 teaspoon vanilla
Directions
Grease a 9- by 13-inch baking dish (or two 8- by 8-inch baking dishes) with butter or coat with nonstick cooking spray.
In a medium saucepan, melt butter over medium heat. Stir in brown sugar and maple syrup; continue stirring as mixture comes to a boil. Remove from heat and pour into prepared baking dish. Arrange the bread cubes over the brown sugar mixture. Sprinkle bread cubes with cinnamon and nutmeg, to taste.
In a large bowl, whisk the eggs and mix in the eggnog and vanilla. Evenly pour this custard mixture over the bread cubes. Press down lightly on the bread to make sure it's all coated/soaked. Tightly cover baking dish with aluminum foil and refrigerate overnight, at least 8 hours.
Remove the baking dish from the refrigerator. Preheat oven to 325°F. Bake, covered, for 40 minutes. Increase oven temperature to 375°F and remove foil. Bake, uncovered, for an additional 5 to 10 minutes or until knife inserted in center of casserole is clean (and mostly dry) and top is puffy and golden brown.


Sausage Strata

1 lb sausage, browned and drained
12 pieces bread, crusts removed and buttered on one side
Mix together:
6 eggs
2 cups milk
1 lb grated cheddar cheese

Line sprayed 13 x 9 pan with bread, buttered side down and sprinkle with sausage.
Pour egg and milk mixture over sausage. Cover with grated cheese. 
Cover with aluminum foil. Let stand one hour or overnight in refrigerator.
Bake at 350 degrees for 45 minutes covered and 15 minutes uncovered. 
*Variation: ham, bacon, broccoli or cauliflower

Main Dishes—Meatless
Baked Mac and Cheese

8 oz elbow macaroni
1 can cream of mushroom soup
1 c milk
2 c shredded sharp cheddar cheese
½ c cracker crumbs (ritz or saltines)
2 T melted butter
 
Set oven to 375° degrees F. Cook macaroni and drain.  Blend soup and milk together.  Layer macaroni, soup mixture, and cheese alternately into a casserole dish.  Sprinkle cheese on top.  Toss crumbs with butter and sprinkle onto casserole.  Bake 25-30 minutes at 375° degrees F until bubbly and brown.
 
*For 10 x 13 casserole, double recipe


Butternut Squash Pasta

1 1/2 tablespoons olive oil
1 cup onion, diced
2 cloves minced garlic
4 heaping cups peeled and diced butternut squash
2 cups chicken stock
1/8 teaspoon thyme
1 bay leaf
salt & pepper, to taste
1/4 cup grated parmesan cheese
1/4 cup heavy cream
2/3 lb. pasta, cooked to al dente
DIRECTIONS:
Heat olive oil over medium heat. Sauté onion until browned, about 5 minutes. Stir in garlic and squash and cook another 3 minutes. Pour in chicken stock, thyme, bay leaf, salt and pepper. Cover and bring to boil. Reduce to simmer and cook 8-10 minutes or until squash is tender. Remove bay leaf and puree until completely smooth. Stir in cheese and cream. Toss with cooked pasta and serve with extra cheese and pepper, if desired.


Cheesy Macaroni and Cheese

16 oz macaroni pasta (any shape pasta you like)
1/2 C unsalted butter
1 tsp salt
1/2 tsp pepper
1/2 C flour 
3 1/2 C milk, warmed
1/4 C chicken broth
1/2 lb Velveeta cheese, cubed
1/2 lb cheddar, cubed

Topping:
1/2 C panko bread crumbs or Ritz crackers
1 Tbl parsley
2 Tbl butter, melted

Heat 350' oven. Grease 9x13 glass dish ( 8x8 or round casserole, if making half the recipe).
Cook pasta for about 2-3 minutes less than called for, drain, set aside.
In a saucepan, melt 1/2 C butter, salt pepper, once melted add flour, stir until smooth. Let cook for 1 minute. Add milk, chicken broth, bring to a boil, whisking. Add cheeses and stir until melted. Pour over cooked pasta and add to greased dish.

Combine the panko, parsley and melted butter in a small bowl. Sprinkle panko topping over macaroni, bake uncovered 30 minutes.


Lazy Day Lasagna
1 jar  (24 oz.) spaghetti sauce
2 cups  water
4 large  cloves garlic, minced
4 cups  egg noodles, uncooked
1 cup  Ricotta Cheese
3 Tbsp.  chopped fresh basil
1 cup  Shredded Mozzarella Cheese
3 Tbsp.  Grated Parmesan Cheese

BRING spaghetti sauce, water and garlic to boil in large skillet. Stir in noodles; cover.

COOK on medium-low heat 12 min. or just until noodles are tender, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat; stir.

MIX ricotta and basil; drop spoonfuls over noodle mixture. Sprinkle with remaining cheeses; cover. Let stand 5 min. until mozzarella is melted.

Meatless Asian Lettuce Wraps

2 tsp. vegetable oil
2 tsp. fresh ginger, minced (dried ginger can be substituted)
3 cups black beans, rinsed
2 cloves garlic, minced
½ cup zucchini, chopped
1 cup cabbage, chopped
½ cup carrots, grated
3 green onions, chopped
¼ c. cilantro, chopped (optional)
1 head bib, iceberg, or romaine lettuce, washed and leaves separated
Sauce:
4 Tbsp. soy sauce
4 Tbsp. brown sugar
½ tsp. sesame oil
2 Tbsp. rice wine vinegar
½ tsp. fresh ginger, minced (dried ginger can be substituted)
Saute zucchini, carrots, onions, cabbage, garlic and ginger with oil in a large sauté pan. Cook over medium-high heat, adding water if necessary, until vegetables are cooked and reduced in volume by about 1/3. This should take about 5 minutes. Add cilantro and beans and stir to combine. In a separate bowl combine sauce ingredients and whisk until sugar has dissolved. Add to sauté pan and bring all ingredients to a boil (Some sauce can be reserved for dipping, if you would like). Remove sauté pan from heat and spoon bean mixture into lettuce leaves. Top with sriracha sauce, if you like spicy food.

One-Pot Caprese Pasta

4-1/2 cups water
3 tablespoons olive oil
1 box (1-pound) farfalle (bow tie) pasta
1 pint cherry tomatoes, halved
½ cup basil leaves, packed
3 garlic cloves, minced
salt and fresh ground pepper, to taste
1-1/2 cups part skim shredded mozzarella cheese
balls of fresh mozzarella cheese and fresh basil leaves for garnish (optional)
balsamic vinegar or glaze (optional)
INSTRUCTIONS
In a stockpot, combine water, olive oil, pasta, halved tomatoes, basil leaves, garlic, salt and pepper.
Cook over high heat and bring to a boil.
Reduce heat to a simmer and continue to cook for 11 to 12 minutes, or until pasta is thoroughly cooked and water reduced. Stir occasionally.
Remove from heat and let stand 2 minutes.
Stir in shredded mozzarella cheese; stir until thoroughly combined.
Taste for salt and pepper; adjust accordingly.
Garnish with balls of fresh mozzarella cheese and fresh basil leaves.
Serve immediately.



 Skinny Spaghetti Squash Alfredo

1 medium-sized spaghetti squash
1 Tablespoon butter
3 cloves of garlic, finely minced
2 Tablespoons flour
1 cup milk (I used fat-free)
1 Tablespoon cream cheese or Neufchatel cheese
1 cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese, plus 2 Tablespoons extra for topping
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/8 teaspoon freshly ground pepper
Crushed red pepper flakes and fresh parsley, for optional garnish

DIRECTIONS:
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.

First, prep the squash. Cut spaghetti squash in half using a large sharp knife, scoop out the seeds and place cut side down on a rimmed baking sheet covered with water. Bake until tender, about an hour.

As an alternate way of baking: Poke a few holes deep into the whole squash with a paring knife. Bake for 60 minutes, remove from the oven and let rest for 10 to 20 minutes before slicing in half with a large serrated knife. Scoop out the seedy inside leaving the spaghetti strands.

Once squash is cooked, use a fork to gently scrape the “spaghetti” strands into the center.

For the sauce, melt butter in a small pot over medium-low heat. Once hot, add garlic and sauté for 1-2 minutes. Whisk in flour, cooking for another minute while stirring. Whisk in milk until no lumps remain. Once hot, add cream cheese and stir until smooth. Remove from the heat. Stir in Parmesan, salt and pepper.

Spoon sauce equally into each spaghetti squash half. Gently pull up the spaghetti strands to coat as much as possible with the sauce. Top with extra Parmesan and place under the broiler of your oven for 2-3 minutes, or until golden and bubbly.

Top each half with a pinch of red pepper flakes and fresh chopped parsley, if desired. Serve hot.
